##ChessBox


As an avid chess player, I find myself dissatisfied with the training tools available. Often the most useful tools are blocked behind paywalls, and the free options are limited. There are so many apps available in this area that offer a couple of useful features, but are mostly bloat or desperately need to be expanded upon. ChessBox is a single envioronment that contains all of the training tools you could ever possibly need, all for free. 

My name is Harry Tennant and I'm currently a student at Newcastle University, studying computer science. This is a project to help develop my skills in programming, system design, and familiarise myself with industry standard softwares that I wouldn't get the chance to try out ion the classroom. When I began development, I had quite a few unique ideas (which have since been formally published by teams of developers). The goal of this project isn't to make the next big app in the chess world, that will kickstart a startup and make a career. My aims are to learn as much as possible and have fun! I first came up with the idea for this app when I wanted to start getting back into competetive play, and wanted a place to train based on my own game data. There are plenty of options that exist, but most of the genuinely useful features are locked behind a paywall. Furthermore, I didn't like switching between websites for single useful features. I wanted a single envioronment that had features tailored to my specific needs and contained all of the features I personally wanted (both ones that exist and ones that don't.)

The first peice of inspiration comes from a website called chess graph. This site has a unique concept of modelling chess games as graphs, not trees, as this accounts for transpositions. I had fun using the GUI to add repertoires from various courses and my own experience into one set repertoire. There were a couple of standout complaints, such as the site only supporting an export of JSON and not a PGN. Looking at the repository, it's clear that a lot of the code is AI generated, which is not necessarily a bad thing. In this age of computer science, avoiding AI is impossible, but its a slippery slope. Too much reliance on AI means you don't really have any skills. Too much avoidance and you'll simply fall behind. It's a fact that AI can write better code than all junior devlopers and it is only getting better. I believe 'agentic workflow' is simple a fad that will dissappear in the near future. Knowledge of systenm design and technologies that support developers is a far more valublee skill than coding now, as AI can never replicate human creativity when it comes to problem solving. Genuinely new ideas that can take humanity forward will not come from AI, but from humans building things with the tools we have available. AI is just another one of those tools. Chess graph was also seemingly missing a way to expand or use the data in any meaningful way. Tghis is where I came up with the novelty finder idea, using game data, graph traversal and Stockfish analysis. 