/

The chess analysis board can view chess games on a visual board, with engine evaluation of the quality of the moves. There are a number of features of the analysis board that need to be explained. Firstly, the board itself has allows for a visual representation of an individual position. The move recorder has a history of all moves that can switch the current position. Each position has a number of variations, which branch to different sequences. Think of it like a tree (although it isn't really a tree because of transpositions). The eval bar measures advantage in centipawns. Positive for white, and negative for black. The cummulative advantage is the sum of the whole position. A completely equal position will therefore have an evaluation of 0 (the bar has equal parts black and white). A positive evaluation is advantage for white, and a negative evaluation is an advantage for black, proportional to the magnitude of the advantage in CTP. 


The Lichess analysis board has the ability for the user to scroll through moves with the trackpad as well as arrow keys and buttons. This feature is really annoying. It has a copy and pasteable fen for every position as well as a pgn of the whole game, including variations. I love the idea of a fen that can be copy and pasted. Entering a fen required hitting the enter key, and validates if the fen is valid. Moves can be compared against various opening databases, like from the player, masters or global lichess users. The board can be shown for Fischer random and other games. Engione analysis was really difficult to use. Not a fan of the UI. The user can also play against a chess engine from the analysis board. I don't think playing against bots is really that helpful, and at least for now, is not a feature that I have any interest in adding. The chess.com analysis board offers the same visuals with their signature move categorisation. Engine depth can be changed manually as well as saving games in a pgn format. The same style of opening database is used to compare with master games. Chessly has the same in a far more minimal way. The chess.com style eval bar is by far the best way of displaying advantage in my opinion. Chessable's analysis board is designed to be course compatible, which is similar to the purpose of this analysis board. However, instead of courses, the idea is to build a personal repertoire from preference and game data, rather than to sell or build a course. The visible fen is really helpful however. One cool feature in the chessbase analysis board is the ability to add comments on moves in the style of !!, !? etc... I do not think this is necessary and in my case would just take up too much space. 

In terms of features to add, The visible fen is a must. I want to implement the eval bar and chess engine content in a similar way to chess.com. This board will be visible in a similar way in the repertoire page, where saved data can be loaded, more similar to chessable's analysis board. To be chess graph compatible, the JSON format has been the default, but I would also like a pgn format to be copyable and to be savable. as well as the afformentioned visible fen. The fen should work like lichess' analysis board, where valid fens can also be pasted in to achieve a new game in a given position. 